This is a practical IP version for submitting lab.
Now this is a practical lab helping you test and verify your knowledge of IP vision for subletting.
We're not simply going to talk about the theory of IP version 4 subletting you need to subnet but in
addition configure the network and get it working.
You need to configure IP addresses on routers on switches and on DHB servers and then you need to configure
the DHB servers to allocate IP addresses to the clients in the correct subnet.
So once again this is a practical demonstration and lab of IP version for submitting in this packet
to trace a lab.
We have multiple sites side 1 and side two connected via serial links to an Internet writer.
You need to configure the network as follows you've been allocated subnet 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 0 slash 24 and
you need to subnet this network into 4 subnets as follows subnet 1 needs to be allocated to site to
1 subnet 2 to the serial link between right of 1 and the Internet broader subnet 3 2 site 2 and subnet
4 to the link between Rider 2 and the Internet rather.
Now we are not going to initially optimize the sub netting you're only going to create 4 subnets and
then split them across these four networks in a subsequent video we'll optimize the serial links to
use a slash 30 mosque and then make more subnets available for additional sites.
But in this initial topology you simply need to create 4 subnets.
You should configure the route as per the instructions in the diagram.
In other words this interface on broader one should use of the Lost IP address in the relevant subnet.
This interface should use the first ip address in the subnet on the serial link.
The Internet right is going to use the lost IP address in both subnets on the serial links and router
2 will once again use the lost IP address in the subnet on the Ethan end interface and to the first
ip address on the serial interface.
You need to configure the switches with the second to last IP address and the subnet and the DHB servers
with the third lost IP address in the subnet so as an example at Site 1 The Switch such one should be
configured with the second lost IP address and the subnet and the DHB server with the third lost IP
address.
The same should be done for switch to incite to and the third lost IP address should be configured on
the DHB server at the site to.
You also need to configure the DHB servers to allocate IP addresses to the clients in the relevant subnets.
So as an example DHB server 1 should allocate IP addresses to PCI 0.
P.S. 1 and P.S. 2 in the subnet allocated to this network DCP server 2 should allocate IP addresses
in the correct subnet to PCI 3 4 and 5.
Once you've done your configuration verify that pieces can access Cisco dot com and Facebook dot com
using their browsers.
The server today to day to day date is configured as a DNS server.
So think of this as the Google DNS server that is configured with a records for Cisco dot com and Facebook
dot com.
So once you've got your network configured with the correct IP addresses your DHB servers are allocating
IP addresses to the clients the clients should be able to access Cisco dot com and Facebook dot com.
Again this is the DNS server in the network.
OK so can you complete the slab.
Can you work out the relevant subnets the relevant IP addresses and configure the routers switches and
DHB servers to get this network working.
Download the packet trace a file and see if you can complete to the lab yourself.
Otherwise watch the next video where I complete the lab.